All the different transit names:
* __Sound Transit__ is the regional transit authority, which has jurisdiction over several counties. ST buses and trains are white on top with some blue on the bottom and a little green between the two. They can be distinguished from other similarly colored buses by a wave-like pattern in the middle, where all the colors meet and make magic. Or waves.
* __Metro Transit__ has jurisdiction of King County, which includes Seattle, Shoreline, Burien, Kent, Bellevue, Kirkland, and Redmond. All Metro buses are yellow on the bottom. Metro neighborhood buses are dark green/blue/purple on top, depending on the model of the bus. Rapidrides are red on top. Rapidride bonus: you can pay at the bus stop & board from any door. This makes boarding & deboarding much faster & thus improves ride times. Rapidride bonus 2.0: another chance to catch magic in action-- [they are all Gryffindor themed](https://www.google.com/images?q=metro+rapidride).
* __Community Transit__ has jurisdiction over Snohomish County, which includes Lynnwood, Edmonds, Mountlake Terrace, Bothell, Marysville, and... Snohomish. CT buses are also mostly white with some blue, and CT buses can often but not always be distinguished by their double-decker ostentatiousness. If you want a view during your long commute, consider moving into CT's jurisdiction! ;)
* __Intercity Transit__ has jurisdiction over Thurston County, which is a distant land from Seattle. IT buses are mostly blue with some white and dark green. They can be distinguished from similarly colored buses by patch of dark green at the rear end of the bus and the little swoop of gray or white at the top.
* _Pierce Transit_ also exists but currently has no routes into Seattle. PT operates in Pierce County, which lives between King and Thurston counties. Enjoy the not-really-irony of it having no routes to Seattle when IT has several. This is what happens when people in your neighborhood don't vote for transit.

__Fare Enforcement__: operate on all routes that allow boarding from doors away from the driver. They would like you to have your transfer, ticket, or transit card out when they approach you to scan. They give out warnings the first time a person is caught without fare & will want to take a picture of your ID if you are that person. On future offenses, they __will__ write tickets. [Fare Enforcement is legally allowed to detain you if you withhold your ID.][rights] But you, future Adie, will have ORCA LIFT. Your monthly fare will be easy on your pocket at $54 a month, and they will tap your card and move on to the next customer. :)
